1. Under North Carolina law, what is the punishment for using a UAS to interfere with manned aircraft flight?

A) There are no penalties.
B) It is a felony.
C) Operators will receive a written warning.


2. What is the name of the joint effort between the FAA and several partner organizations to promote safe UAS operation?
A) Know Before You Fly
B) Safety First
C) Safe Modeling


3. A North Carolina state agency has established a UAS response team to support a wide range of missions for evaluating environmental health and stewardship in North Carolina. The agency’s UAS team has met all FAA qualifications and North Carolina permitting requirements and received permission authority to conduct statewide operations. Which of the following is not allowed:
A) Using multi-spectral imaging to evaluate aquatic grass health along coastal tributaries to determine water quality.
B) Surveying state-owned properties for unapproved activities.
C) Flying right of way easements to review for encroachment or unapproved activity.
D) None of the above


4. The Federal Aviation Administration has exclusive authority over which of the following:
A) All airspace within the United States, regardless of altitude.
B) All airspace within the United States above 400 feet except within five miles of an airport.
C) All airspace within the United States above 1,200 feet except within five miles of an airport.


5. The use of special imaging technology on UAS is always prohibited under North Carolina law.
True
False


6. A state agency (or commercial operator) may use a UAS to conduct surveillance in all but which of the following cases:
A) To photograph individuals at a public event for the purposes of publishing the photos.
B) To photograph a person’s home with prior consent.
C) To photograph land under consideration for state purchase as an easement without prior consent from the current land owner.
D) To photograph a piece of private property used for growing commercial crops for a small farming business with prior consent.


7. If you are photographed by a UAS in violation of North Carolina law, you may be entitled to:
A) Nothing
B) $500 per photograph, as well as attorneys' fees and other fines as determined by the court.
C) $5,000 per photograph, as well as attorneys' fees and other fines as determined by the court.
D) $15,000 per photograph as well as attorneys' fees and other fines as determined by the court.


8. What is the difference between a model aircraft and a UAS, as defined by North Carolina law?
A) Nothing
B) Unmanned aircraft can be used for non-recreational purposes, including commercial or government use purposes.
C) Model aircraft can be used for recreational or commercial purposes but not government use purposes.
D) A model aircraft is an aircraft a person builds themselves, regardless of the purposes for which the aircraft is used.
E) An aircraft is only a UAS if it has a GPS installed.


9. Select the statement below that reflects the most complete definition of an unmanned aircraft system as specified in the North Carolina General Statute.
A) An unmanned aircraft operated without the possibility of human intervention.
B) An unmanned aircraft and the associated elements that are required for the operator to safely operate the system.
C) An unmanned aircraft that is flown only for commercial purposes.


10. Any person who is the subject of unwarranted surveillance, or whose photo is taken without permission, may take civil action against the person, entity, or state agency that conducts the surveillance or uses a UAS to photograph them for the purpose of publishing or otherwise disseminating the photograph.
True
False


11. North Carolina law prevents any person, entity, or state agency from conducting surveillance on which of the following:
A) A person or dwelling occupied by a person and that dwelling’s surrounding land without that person’s consent.
B) Private real property without the consent of the owner, easement holder, or lessee.
C) Photographing an individual without that person’s consent, for the purpose of publishing or otherwise publicly disseminating the photograph.
D) All of the above


12. You must have your North Carolina UAS Permit with you when you conduct commercial UAS operations.
True
False


13. In order to launch and/or recover a UAS on privately or publicly owned property, which of the following must be in place:
A) Consent from the landowner, lessee or public institution with legal authority over the property.
B) Consent from the landowner or lessee of privately owned property. No consent is needed for public property.
C) Consent from the public institution with legal authority over the property for publically owned property. No consent is needed for privately owned property.
D) Nothing


14. A private land owner maintains several hundred acres of property for deer and dove hunting during approved seasons throughout the year, following North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission guidelines. The property is posted with “No trespassing” signs and only paying clients are allowed to hunt on the property. Which of the following is illegal in North Carolina:
A) A local animal rights group launches a fleet of quad-copters from an adjacent public road to scare away birds every morning before hunting groups depart.
B) The property owner flies a UAS to scout animal activity on the range without FAA authorization or a North Carolina permit to operate a UAS.
C) The property owner offers clients the ability to rent a UAS equipped with a gun and first-person viewing capability to try “Virtual Reality Hunting.”
D) All of the above


15. Certain National Parks in North Carolina prohibit UAS flights except as approved in writing by the Park Superintendent.
True
False


16. The red arrow is pointing to what type of airspace:

IMAGE

A) Class B Airspace
B) Class C Airspace
C) A restricted area
D) Unregulated airspace


17. Are UAS covered by current Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs)?
A) No, the FARs contain no regulations that are applicable to UAS.
B) Not when I am flying over my property.
C) Yes, UAS are considered aircraft and therefore governed by current FARs.
D) Yes, but only at night.


18. What constitutes the weaponization of a UAS?
A) Drones are for fun, so no matter what you do, they won’t be considered weaponized.
B) Attaching a weapon to a UAS.
C) Using a weapon from the ground to interfere with a UAS.


19. UAS operators may intentionally interfere with the lawful taking of wildlife.
True
False


20. Both the federal government and State of North Carolina have jurisdiction concerning crimes committed where a UAS was used.
True
False


21. Even if it is not specified, all North Carolina laws can be applied to UAS operations. For example, North Carolina peeping laws can be applied to an individual using a UAS to look into a neighbor’s window without their consent.
True
False


22. North Carolina law contains the provision that interfering with lawful taking of wildlife with an unmanned aircraft system can be a misdemeanor.
True
False


23. North Carolina law stipulates that all UAS activities conducted in the National Airspace System are governed by federal regulations on aviation activities. The state governs only UAS activities over which it has legal authority.
True
False


24. You must have all required federal documentation and state permits with you when you fly a UAS commercially in North Carolina.
True
False

25. Is it legal to use a UAS to help you hunt or fish in North Carolina?
A) Yes, you can use a UAS for hunting or fishing.
B) No, you can’t fly around wildlife.
C) No, it is punishable by way of misdemeanor.
D) Yes, but only for hunting.
